Phillip Powell
Personal Concept of Privacy Reflections
3/7/16
My Personal Concept of Privacy
	I believe respecting the privacy of another person is the most important thing someone can do.  Privacy is something everyone should have and never have to worry about others constantly trying to invade it.  To me, privacy is allowing someone to be free to do what they want without the worry of being disturbed or watched over by anyone else.  Your home should offer you total privacy and no one should be able to take that away from you.  Things like browsing history, emails, text messages and viewing habits of television shows or movies of a person should be kept completely private unless they want another person to see them.  Personal information is also something that should be kept hidden and no one should be worried about things like social security numbers, medical records, bank account numbers or income numbers being seen by anyone without permission.  In my opinion it would be an unethical breach of privacy for anyone to search for or leak any personal information or actions of another person without their permission.  
	My view on the concept of privacy is something that evolves constantly as I encounter new life experiences or lessons.  I would say the bulk of my views came from my childhood and where I grew up.  I spent most of my childhood living in an urban neighborhood where the houses were very close together with small yards.  I remember spending time playing in my backyard and I could easily hear the conversations of neighbors without even trying, this is when I realized even your own backyard does not offer you complete privacy.  Living that close to your neighbors I quickly learned if you wanted to expect privacy you had to remember to close windows and even blinds if you want to make sure others cannot hear or see what you are doing.  
	While growing up though, my family always believed that conversations or actions that happened in our own home were always to be kept private.  My parents would always have conversations with my sister and I that often ended with something like "this is not to be repeated outside of this house".  At home, I always felt comfortable expressing my true beliefs on political issues or current events without worrying about others hearing or using my words against me.  I always felt safe inside of my own home and I feel that is a feeling everyone should have about their own home.  A home should be somewhere you can feel safe to do or say whatever you like without worrying about others seeing.  I personally feel it would be unethical for anyone to invade that privacy by watching through the windows or placing any type of monitoring device inside someone's home.  
	Even in your own home sometimes you need personal privacy as well.  I have never lived alone and spent most of my life with my parents and my older sister.  Luckily, throughout my entire life I have always had my own room where I could go to.  When I was a child though, I never had a lock on my door and my parents were not afraid to go into my room without asking, but I was ok with that as a kid.  Now as an adult though, I expect my personal room to be private and never entered without me there and I treat everyone else's personal space the same way.  
	Even though I am only 25 years old, I spent the majority of my childhood growing up without technology.  If I ever wanted to use the phone to call someone, I had to use the house phone and hope my sister or parents were not listening on another phone inside the house.  Even though my conversations were between two people, I never really felt total privacy using the phone until I got my first cell phone when I was 17.  Once I had my own cell phone, I knew I could use it with complete privacy or worry of others listening.  I feel phone conversations should be kept private between the two people having the conversations unless they decide others should be informed of their conversations.  Recording another person's phone conversations without their knowledge would be an unethical breach of privacy.       
	Once I was around the age of 17, many different forms of technology started to offer me more privacy.  Not long after my first cell phone, I bought my first personal laptop as well.  Before this, my family had a computer, but it was a "family" computer in a shared space.  The whole family used this computer and I had no ways to save personal information or browsing history without others seeing it.  Growing up, I really did not expect any form of privacy from my family's computer but that all changed when I bought my first laptop.  My laptop was only used by me and I always had it password locked to make sure others could not use it without my permission.  This laptop gave me total privacy of browsing history, files and programs.  Once I had my own laptop I rarely, if ever, used the family laptop.  I felt so much more comfortable having my computer usage private. Soon the family computer became a thing of the past as each family member ended up with their own laptop or tablet. 
	Technology is something that has offered many people a new form of privacy, but there are also forms of technology that can be just as easily used to invade someone's privacy.  Many people now enjoy using their computers to shop online.  This is a very common process that many people don't even think twice about.  I do not do a lot of shopping online, but when I have I noticed one very big problem.  One day I was on Amazon searching through headphones I was thinking about buying, ultimately I decided not to purchase a pair that day and moved on to other websites to do things other than shopping.  All of a sudden on a completely different website, I notice adds on the side specifically advertising headphones I was just looking at.  Soon after, I receive an email again advertising headphones which make me realize this is much bigger than a coincidence.  Clearly Amazon or any other online company has been tracking my shopping habits without my notice and will now use those habits to advertise things specifically to me on my computer.  I do not feel this is an ethical process even if it is technically legal.  When I use my computer to search the internet I expect my browsing history to be kept private but that is clearly not the case when you start shopping.  
	Another big issue technology has created is something people willing use every day to diminish their own privacy, social media.  Social media started as a way for friends to keep in touch with one another online without having to see each other every day.   It may have started harmlessly, but it has gotten completely out of hand.  People willingly post things about their personal lives, jobs, vacations and even photos online for the whole world to see.  I feel social media is destroying everything that was built to protect someone's privacy.  Some people even use Facebook to "check in" to places they go to.  So now you have someone posting a picture, their daily plans, and checking in at places they visit every day, and then expecting to have some form of privacy.  I understand wanting to connect with friends online, but I feel people don't fully understand when they post things online, the whole world will eventually have access to it.  I am strongly against the use of social media for the main reason of wanting to keep my activities private.  By posting my future plans on social media, I have not only notified my friends but many other unknown people as well.    
	One thing many people feel is a danger to our privacy is the government.  I do not agree that the government is a threat to our privacy, I actually feel the government mostly does things to help us keep our privacy.  It is a well known fact that there are surveillance camera's all over public areas and many of our internet browsing history is being watched by the government.  While many would feel this is a breach of privacy, I actually feel it is beneficial to keeping us safe from potential terrorist attacks or crimes.  If someone is constantly searching things like "bombs" or "weapons" online, there is a good chance they are planning something that could seriously harm others and the government would pick up on this and work to stop this before the attack happens.  I am all for personal privacy online until your online activity puts others lives in danger, from then on I am fine with the government doing anything necessary to keep others safe and maintain others privacy.  
	Every person will have their own views on the concept of privacy.  Others, just like myself, have probably shaped their views from their childhood and where they were brought up.  My personal view is that everyone should feel complete privacy in their own homes and on their personal computers or phones.  I feel it would be unethical to listen in on anyone's phone conversations or read through documents on anyone's computer without the permission of the owner.  Privacy is very important and no one should live fearing their medical information or personal information is at risk.  No one should ever set out with the intention to unethically find someone's bank account or social security information.  I also feel that maintaining personal privacy is something everyone must remember depends on their actions as well and if you post information about yourself online often, you cannot ever expect your privacy to last.  Many people like to blame the government for breaching their privacy, but rarely does the government invade your privacy unless you give them a reason too, and most often people invade their own privacy by announcing to the world their intentions online.  
