Phillip Powell
7/21/15
Technology Timeline Reflection
1.) Which technologies/services have impacted our (and familiy member) most, both positively and negatively?
	One technology that has really impacted my family is FaceTime.  My parents moved to Dallas, Texas about 2 years ago and FaceTime has really become our primary program for communication.  When you live that far away being able to actually see someone is much better then just talking on the phone with another person.  Another service that really impacted my family was switching form dial up internet to high speed internet.  The internet was almost impossible to use with dial up and with the switch to high speed we basically had real internet use for the first time as a family.  We use the internet multiple times a day now and I could not imagine life without reliable internet now.

2.) Which IT/SN hardware, software, and/or related issues were most prominent in the news during the time span of your timeline, and why?
	Well one big issue was the whole Y2K problem when everyone thought computers were going to have issues switching to the 2000 year.  I don't remember what year this started, probably around the early 2000's but another big issue was when hackers really started using technology to steal people's identities.  One of my family member's actually had her identity stolen a couple of years ago.  I don't know if this counts as an "issue" but one thing that affected my family was switching to window's vista, we actually bought a new desktop right after window's vista came out and were so disappointed with it we returned the system and waited for window's 8 to come out.  I remember there was a huge public backlash from window's vista and many people were very angry with it. 
	
3.) Describe/give examples of two (2) current, general benefits and challenges/problems presented by computing, phone/telecommunication, internet (including gaming) and social networking technology.  
	One benefit of online gaming is the ability to play video games with someone half way across the world.  I have an uncle who lives in Colorado that I play madden with frequently, without the advancements in online gaming that wouldn't be possible.  Another benefit of social media advancements is the ability to get important information broadcasted faster.  I have noticed police stations and others often posting missing people reports on social media,  while I'm not a big fan of social media, I'm sure it makes sharing important messages like that much easier and quicker.  One challenge of social media is the fact that people spend way too much time on it now.  People check social media constantly and often waste even work time checking social media which has caused some companies to ban use during work hours.  Another challenge is keeping the online gaming servers from getting hacked.  I play games online often and in the past 6 months I'd say the servers have been hacked 2-3 times, if people are going to have information like credit card numbers, the security on those servers needs to be better. 
4.) In what ways do the ingredients of your "soup" interact with/affect your families history with technology?
	One thing that I would say has slightly affected my family from my "soup" was growing up in the bottom of the middle class.  I would never of considered my family "poor", but we definitely were not able to afford a lot of the new technologies early on.  For example, my family was very late to switching from high speed internet from dial up, and my first gaming system was a nintendo 64, but my parents bought me one after it had already been out for a couple of years.  Another thing I would say affected me was where I grew up.  When I started middle school I actually went to a school that provided every student with a laptop during their time there so I got proficient with laptops very early in my life. 
